>> Brian: So, JSX.
To this point, we have been writing
just vanilla JavaScript with React and
that is sufficient.
That will get you as
far as you want to go.
So why do we actually have JSX?
Well, I think it's actually interesting to
talk a little about the history about JSX.
So Facebook launched React and I'm trying
to remember which conference was it.
It wasn't at JS Conf it was like,
I don't remember.
Anyways conference they came out on stage
like hey we have this great new framework
library out.
It's amazing and you all should try it.
Here it is go take a look and
people saw it.
They had HTML inside of their JavaScript,
and
they saw this compiled step that
they have to go through to get it
to actually work and people were
like nope not touching that, right?
They thought it was really gross and
they thought it was a horrible idea,
myself included.
I watched this keynote and
I was like man Pete Hutton get off
the stage, what are you doing?
This is embarrassing and horrible and why?
You should feel bad about yourself and
go take a shower, something like that.
So anyway, he gave his talk, people just
kind of dismissed it pretty quickly.
And it took me about six months
to finally revisit React.
It was because an engineer came in from
another company that was using a little
bit of React on the side, and he's like,
we should give this another shot.
He's like, just push through the JSX
hate and then just try it out.
So I pushed through,
tried it, ended up loving it.
Ended up writing a big
piece of our code in it.
So, JSX it's HTML inside
of your JavaScript.
That's the simplest way to put it.
The more correct it's XMLX syntax right?
Basically, it makes it almost
a new primitive for JavaScript.
Everything else is 100% normal JavaScript,
it just adds this little bit of
HTML into your JavaScript flavor.
>> Brian: The reason why that actually
ends up being okay, according to me,
is that, as you saw, when we were
writing our React without JSX.
We're writing JavaScript
code to mimic markup, right?
So, if we're writing JavaScript code to
mimic markup, wouldn't it be nice if we
could just, right, mark up, right,
and just skip that middle step?
So you have less of that cognitive
translation layer of going from okay, I
want this mark up, now I have to translate
that in my head to this JavaScript,
which then ends up going
back to the mark up, right.
It'd be better if we could
just write markup, and
it just ends up being markup,
that's the basic gist.
Another funny part about that,
which I forgot where I heard this.
But the reason why JSX arose was not
because they thought it was a great idea.
But at Facebook they had a PHP
variance that was very similar to JSX,
that they were writing this
kind of HTML like in PHP.
And they actually wrote JSX to mimic
this particular market that they had
at Facebook, and that ended up sticking
and people ended up liking it.
Despite the fact it was
actually written for
PHP developers and not necessarily for
us, as JavaScript developers.
Anyway, I thought that was
an interesting caveat.
>> Brian: Cool.
So let's actually go to mytitle.js,
and we're going to convert this to JSX
instead of this function call here.
So, what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna say,
div, h1 style = style.
We'll just do it this way.
>> Brian: Oops, come on.
>> Brian: And then we're gonna
say this.props.title, okay?
And then we need to go define our style,
so
we're gonna say const style
= color: this.props.color.
>> Brian: Now like I said, most
people's immediate reaction to this is,
that looks really gross.
Why do I want that?
Understandable.
It was definitely my first reaction, too.
So that's an okay reaction to have.
And I invite you to, at least for
this workshop, to just push through it and
if at at the end of this workshop you're
not grateful for it then go ahead and
don't do it.
But like I said, no one I know
that writes React besides this
one guy at one company writes anything but
JSX.
>> Brian: A common argument pointed at
JSX is, we spent years and years and
years trying to get
JavaScript out of our HTML,
why the hell are we putting HTML
into our JavaScript, right?
Which is a fair question to ask.
>> Brian: And this kinda goes back to
my mashing together concerns idea.
So now everything for MyTitle here, right?
We have everything all together.
We have the markup together.
We could potentially have
the style here together.
But we have the markup and the behavior
all mashed together here in one file.
So if we ever have any problems with
MyTitle, there's exactly one place to
start looking for that problem,
and that's here inside of MyTitle.
And by just understanding what the bug is,
knowing where to start, that's a very,
very powerful debugging tool, right?
Like I said with older versions of
Angular, just by knowing what the bug is,
you are no closer to
really to finding the bug.
So I find that to be a very
powerful part of React.
>> Brian: And by extension JSX.
Okay, so let's kind of break down what
you are seeing here right, h1s and
divs, right?
This all looks familiar to anyone
that's written any HTML before.
Let's talk about these
curly braces right here.
This is basically the way
that you signify to JSX like,
I want you to put out whatever the value
of this.props.title is, right?
It's saying like,
this is a JavaScript expression,
please output that here, right?
If I took off these curly braces,
it would literally print out the string,
this.props.title, right?
Does that make sense?
So, by putting these curly braces on,
you're saying,
this is a JavaScript expression.
Please return the output
of this expression.
Like, so for example,
I would say toUpperCase here, and
call function,
that would be totally acceptable.
>> Brian: Okay, style right.
We're just putting this object here.
Now you can put this down here and
just skip this assignment step.
The reason why I don't initially do that?
Because people get confused by seeing
the two curly braces next to each other.
And I wanted you to distinguish
that they are different, right?
The outer set means JavaScript expression,
the inner set means JavaScript object.
So that's why I separate those.
It's just so
it's very visually apparent to you that
those are separate concepts going on.
>> Brian: Any questions so far?
So if we save this and
refresh here everything should always,
except you have to run web pack again.
>> Brian: I left a period in there.
That's pretty nice, too.
It says hey, you screwed up right there,
just so you know.
>> Brian: So I'm getting real sick of
running webpack every single time.
So you can just say webpack --watch.
And it's just going to build it once.
And then it's just going to incrementally
rebuild it as you keep building.
Another little trick,
which I'll probably use later but
you can say npm run build right?
Which we know behind the scenes
is going to be webpack, right?
You're gonna actually say dash, dash which
basically says, everything after this,
passed directly to web pack --watch,
right?
So now I'm gonna run webpack --watch
using the build step, right?
So you can see here,
this is what it actually ran, right here,
webpack "--watch".
Does that make sense?
So, that's a very useful thing, so you
can pass additional flags if you need to.
Actually, we come back
to your package.json.
And let's actually just put that in there.
So, you can saw "watch":.
Now, you can do one of two things here,
you can say webpack --watch,
if you want to.
Or you can say,
>> Brian: npm run build --.
So it can actually be self-referential and
that's okay.
What's nice about this, if I add anything
to webpack like say I had to add -p here,
something like that, or something else
that would automatically get translated to
watch, which may or
may not be helpful but.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian: Either way,
I'm fine with you putting it either way.
>> Brian: So now I can come over here and
say npm run watch.
>> Brian: And now we're good to go.